General Challenges
The Salty Scrub

No Spirit Ashes, NPC Summons, or Multiplayer/Cooperative Summons can ever be used (This challenge should be implied/inherent in any and all challenge runs, but it is listed here to be included in the Grand Compendium)

Off The Sauce

You cannot ever drink from/use the Flask of Wondrous Physick

Talisman Teetotaler

No Talismans can ever be equipped

Daring Disrobement

You cannot wear/equip any type of armor

Intrepid Infantry

You cannot ever mount or ride Torrent in combat (you can still mount and ride him to traverse the overworld, explore, jump, etc., but you cannot use him in any fights)

Great Rune Restriction

You cannot activate, equip, or use any Great Runes (Rennala's Great Rune, as a passive, is allowed)

The Lay of The Land

You cannot pick up/acquire any Map Fragments

Basic Weaponry Challenges
Pride of Legolas

You can only equip and deal damage with Light Bows, Bows, and Greatbows.

Dag Swag

You can only equip and deal damage with Daggers.

Indiana Jones

You can only equip and deal damage with Whips.

Senpou Style

You can only equip and deal damage with Hand-to-Hand Arts.*

Strength Through Length

You can only equip and deal damage with Spears, Great Spears, and Halberds.

The Grim Gauntlet

You can only equip and deal damage with Reapers.

Wolverine

You can only equip and deal damage with Claws.

Proficiency in Pungency

You can only equip and deal damage with Perfume Bottles.*

The Lumberjack

You can only equip and deal damage with Axes and Greataxes.

Better Call Maul

You can only equip and deal damage with Twinblades.

Peyronie Power

You can only equip and deal damage with Curved Swords and Curved Greatswords.

Witch-king of Angmar

You can only equip and deal damage with Flails.

Backhanded Compliments

You can only equip and deal damage with Backhand Blades.*

The Otaku

You can only equip and deal damage with Katanas.

The Great Otaku

You can only equip and deal damage with Great Katanas.*

Inigo Montoya

You can only equip and deal damage with Thrusting Swords & Heavy Thrusting Swords.

Whac-A-Mole

You can only equip and deal damage with Hammers and Great Hammers.

King Arthur

You can only equip and deal damage with Straight Swords, Light Greatswords,* and Greatswords.

Big Boy Bonanza

You can only equip and deal damage with Colossal Weapons and Colossal Swords.

Beast Mode

You can only equip and deal damage with Beast Claws.*

Throw Show

You can only equip and deal damage with Throwing Blades.*

The Balboa

Fists only, you cannot equip or deal damage with anything else.

Flame Freak

Torches only, you cannot equip or deal damage with anything else.

The Wall

Shields only, you cannot equip or deal damage with anything else.

The Wall Redux

Thrusting Shields* only, you cannot equip or deal damage with anything else.

Spellin' Like a Felon

You can only equip Staffs or Seals and can only deal damage using Sorceries and Incantations.

NOTE: "equip" above means equipping/slotting something in the Right or Left Hand. (Thus, you cannot equip or use any Shields or Thrusting Shields in any Basic Weaponry Challenge except for The Wall/The Wall Redux! You can still equip armor, talismans, etc., so long as your current challenge run permits it)

NOTE: items maked with * are only obtainable in the DLC area. Therefore, they may more suitable for NG+ and beyond challenge runs, unless you are able to quickly gain access to the DLC with certain strategies.

Advanced Weaponry Challenges
Master of Magic

You can only use weapons and Spells that deal Magic damage.

Lighting Lord

You can only use weapons and Spells that deal Lightning damage.

Habitué of Heat

You can only use weapons and Spells that deal Fire damage.

Sacred Soldier

You can only use weapons and Spells that deal Holy damage.

Madness Mukbang

You can only use weapons and Spells that inflict Madness.

Ashen Aggression

You can only deal damage by using Weapon Skills/Ashes of War.

Original Flavor

You cannot modify any weapon with Ashes of War or change any weapon's Affinity (any weapon's normal/base Weapon Skill can still be used)

Substance Over Style

No Weapon Skills/Ashes of War can ever be used

Tool Temerity

You can only deal damage with Tools

Advanced Spell Challenges
Mage of Convenience

The only spells you can cast are Glintstone Sorceries.

Black Arts of the Blade

The only spells you can cast are Carian Sorceries.

Withering Witchcraft

The only spells you can cast are Servants of Rot Incantations and Saint of the Bud Incantations.

Crepuscular Casting

The only spells you can cast are Night Sorceries.

Fancy the Necromancy

The only spells you can cast are Death Sorceries.

Gravitation Invocation

The only spells you can cast are Gravity Sorceries.

Charms of the Cold Coven

The only spells you can cast are Snow Witch Sorceries and Full Moon Sorceries.

Spells of the Stonemen

The only spells you can cast are Claymen Sorceries and Crystalian Sorceries.

Conflagration Conjuring

The only spells you can cast are Magma Sorceries, Fire Monk Incantations, Fire Giant Incantations, and Messmer Fire Incantations.

Hemo-Hocus-Pocus

The only spells you can cast are Aberrant Sorceries and Blood Incantations.

Draconic Domination

The only spells you can cast are Dragon Communion Incantations.

Thaumaturge of Thunder

The only spells you can cast are Dragon Cult Incantations.

Wild Wizardry

The only spells you can cast are Bestial Incantations.

Teachings of the Trees

The only spells you can cast are Erdtree Incantations and Scaudtree Sorceries.

Follower of the Fingers

The only spells you can cast are Two Fingers Incantations and Finger Sorceries.

Golden Boy

The only spells you can cast are Golden Order Incantations.

Incantations of Insanity

The only spells you can cast are Frenzied Flame Incantations.

By the Skin of the Gods

The only spells you can cast are Godskin Apostle Incantations.

Occultism of Oblivion

The only spells you can cast are Primeval Sorceries.

Magic of the Missing

The only spells you can cast are those not part of a great spell family: Loretta's Sorceries, Spiral Incantations, Placidusax's Ruin, Light of Miquella, Divine Beast Tornado, and Divine Bird Feathers

NOTE: in any "Advanced Spell Challenge" you can still do damage using melee weapons and other items. These challenges only restrict the type of spells you can use.

Extreme Weaponry/Spells Challenges
Arsenal Aesthete

Each time you acquire a new weapon, you must immediately equip it and only use that weapon (until you find/acquire another new weapon, and so on). You cannot use any of the weapons you previously used again; once it is replaced by a new weapon, it is gone.

Magic Maven

Each time you acquire a new Sorcery or Incantation, you must permanently retire 1 Sorcery or Incantation that is already in your inventory (it can never be used again in that playthrough). This challenge begins once you have 3 Spells/Incantations in your inventory.

Night Gaol Spelunking

Each and every time you defeat a Legend or Shardbearer, before proceeding to the next Legend or Shardbearer, you must first defeat 2 of the following 3 (your choice each time):

A Night Boss

An Evergaol Boss

A Cave, Catacombs, or Hero's Grave Boss

(Combine Night Gaol Spelunking with Arsenal Aesthete or Magic Maven for a truly tricky rotating spell/weapon challenge, as the reward from each boss will force you to use new spells/weapons)

The Wheel

If you die three times in a row while using the same weapon, you must immediately Discard that weapon, thereby losing it forever. (Thus, either change up your weapons consistently, or risk losing them)

The Magic Wheel

If you die three times in a row while using the same Sorceries/Incantations, you must immediately Discard the Sorcery or Incantation that you last used, thereby losing it forever. (Thus, either change up your magic consistently, or risk losing your go-to, favorite spells)

Boss and Toss

Each and every time you defeat a Great Enemy, Legend, or Shardbearer, you must Discard ALL of the weapons/shields you used to beat them. If you used magic, you must also Discard ALL of the Sorceries/Incantations you used to beat them (you can keep all Staffs/Seals).

Status Challenges
QuikClot

You cannot inflict Hemorrhage/Blood Loss on any enemy

Warm Heart

You cannot inflict Frostbite on any enemy

Antidote Inherent

You cannot inflict Poison on any enemy

Putrefaction Preventative

You cannot inflict Scarlet Rot on any enemy

Emissary of Insomnia

You cannot inflict Sleep on any enemy

Panacea Playthrough

No status effects of any kind can be inflicted on any enemy

100% Organic

No Spells or Incantations can be used to remove/cure status ailments (consumables only!)

Bugchaser

You cannot ever remove/cure any status ailment (You must heal through it and let it run out!)

Crafting and Item Challenges
Living Off The Land

The only damage-inflicting things you can use are craftable items (pots, perfumes, craftable arrows, darts, etc.) If it's not craftable/in a cookbook, it CANNOT be used to deal damage. Thus, Greases cannot be used, as any weapon they are applied to deals damage by itself.

Apeshit Assault

The only damage-inflicting things you can use are throwables: pots, throwing daggers, fan daggers, kukri, poisoned stones and stone clumps, explosive stones and stone clumps, gravity stone chunks and fans, darts of all types, dragon communion harpoons, etc.

Scavenger

You cannot buy anything from anyone (or trade a Remembrance for anything)

Rune Ruin

You cannot gain Runes by using any consumable Runes (this includes Remembrances)

Fastest Draw in The Lands Between

You can only use a Grease if it's a Drawstring Grease (list of Consumables, scroll to Greases)

Hygienic Hero

You cannot use any Greases of any type

Healing and FP Recovery Challenges
Magic Mending

You can only heal using Incantations

Rejuvenating Rocks

You can only heal using Warming Stones, Frenzyflame Stones, and/or Sunwarmth Stones

Raw Remedy

You can only heal using Raw Meat Dumplings

Physick Fixer-Upper

You can only heal using the Flask of Wondrous Physick

Critical Convalescence

You can only heal through Critical Hits (with Assassin's Crimson Dagger equipped)

The Isai

You cannot ever heal in any way (except as noted below)

No Need for Golden Seed

You cannot ever upgrade your Crimson and Cerulean Flasks using Golden Seeds

No Tears, No Fears

You cannot ever upgrade your Crimson and Cerulean Flasks using Sacred Tears

Mana From The Heavens

You can only recover FP by using Starlight Shards

Spell Sprig

You can only recover FP by using Lulling Branches

Focus Fighter

You can only recover FP by using the Assassin's Cerulean Dagger, the Ancestral Spirit's Horn, the Sacrificial Axe, and the Sword of Milos

NOTE: healing or recovering FP by resting at a Site of Grace is permitted for all Challenges listed above.

Level/Stats Challenges
Vigor Vexation

You cannot increase your Vigor level higher than 30

Fettered Focus

You cannot increase your Mind higher than 25

Stymied Stamina

You cannot increase your Endurance higher than 20

The Hellish Hundred

You cannot increase your total level above 99 (you cannot get to level 100)

Thin Crust

You must always maintain a Light Equip Load

Deep Dish

As soon as possible, you must achieve and always maintain a Heavy Equip Load

Challenges for the Brave or Insane
Soul Simplicity

You cannot increase your player level (you must always stay at Level 1)

Scadutree Simplicity

You cannot use Scadutree Fragments to increase your Scaudtree Blessing level.

Tactical Trek

You cannot ever mount or ride Torrent.

Expert Evasion

You cannot ever dodge/roll.

Blunt Instrument

You cannot ever upgrade any weapons/shields using Smithing Stones/Somber Smithing Stones.

The Waver

You can only ever have 1 hand equipped with/holding a weapon/shield/etc. (One hand must ALWAYS be empty, free to "wave" at enemies. You cannot two-hand a weapon, either!)

How Can She Slap?

You cannot deal damage with anything other than your empty hands: no weapons, spells, throwables, or anything other than empty hands can be used to deal damage

Globetrotter

You cannot ever warp using Sites of Grace (unless absolutely necessary, i.e. to get to Farum Azula or the Roundtable Hold and back)

Amnesiac

You cannot acquire any Memory Stones or equip the Moon of Nokstella

Three Strikes

If you die 3 times to the same Boss, regardless of its status/class, it's game over. You must delete that character and restart the challenge. (3 lives/attempts per Boss. Thus, dying twice to an optional boss is acceptable, but you might want to walk away or consider if the reward is worth it to risk a third, run-ending death!)

1UP

You start with 1 Extra Life, and each time you defeat a Great Enemy, Legend, or Shardbearer you get another Extra Life. Each time you die, you lose a life. If you run out of lives, it's game over. You must delete that character and restart the challenge. (Thus, if you die twice before ever defeating a Great Enemy, Legend, or Shardbearer, you ran out of lives, and it's GG. You do NOT get an Extra Life for defeating an Enemy class boss. The mandatory death that occurs at the very beginning of the game against/after the Grafted Scion does not count as a death)

Git Gud

If you die even once, you're done. You must delete that character and start over. (The mandatory death that occurs at the very beginning of the game against/after the Grafted Scion does not count)

Challenge Combination Examples:
(The Salty Scrub is implied and inherent in every Challenge Combination, of course )

Way of the Blade
King Arthur + Peyronie Power + Boss and Toss

Glass Cannon
Vigor Vexation + Spellin' Like a Felon + The Magic Wheel

Artisanal Armaments
Living Off The Land + Rejuvenating Rocks + 100% Organic

Thunderstruck
Three Strikes + Lightning Lord + Rune Ruin

Raw Roid Rager
Big Boy Bonanza + Raw Remedy + Critical Convalescence

Faith Flinger
Apeshit Assault + Magic Mending

Declaration of Dominance
The Balboa + Great Rune Restriction + Panacea Playthrough

The Angry Villager
Flame Freak + The Grim Gauntlet + Thin Crust + Stymied Stamina

On a Knife's Edge
Dag Swag + 1UP + The Hellish Hundred

Initiate Beast Mode
Wild Wizardry + Wolverine + Three Strikes

Flavors of Fire
Habitué of Heat + Arsenal Aesthete + Magic Maven

Stagger to Survive
Focus Fighter + Critical Convalescence + Fettered Focus + Panacea Playthrough

Come At Me, Bro
The Wall + Deep Dish

The Spice of Life
Arsenal Aesthete + Magic Maven + Night Gaol Spelunking

Odiferous Odyssey
Proficiency in Pungency + Bugchaser + Intrepid Infantry

Howling at the Moon
Madness Mukbang + Daring Disrobement + Scavenger + Bugchaser